So what is a unit test?
You need test is a very small, self-contained method that you write to test some part of your code.
Let's say you have a method in your Java class that needs to be tested to make sure that this method
works as expected.
You will need to write one or more unit tests.
Each unit test is a very small Java method that you create.
It is a small piece of code that you write to invoke the method that you are testing in this particular
example and test any method that is called is email wallet.
So the unit method that they will create will invoke the is email valid method and it will validate
that it has produced an expected result.
To test application code, we usually write more than one unit test.
One unit test will test your method with valid parameters, while another unit test will intentionally
provide a method with invalid parameter values.
And in both scenarios, your unit test methods will only date if the method you are testing produces
expected result.
Now the code and unit test the is very simple and is usually very short.
And this is why on my slide on the right side I have illustrated each unit test has a much smaller element,
then a method it is testing on the left side.
The method on the left side may contain a very complex business logic.
And this is why on my screen this element is represented as a very large element.
So a unique test is also a code that you write, but it is very small and is very simple.
Code that does not contain much of a business logic is very simple code because all it does is it calls
your method and the test with specific input parameters and validates the returns result.
And it is very important to keep in mind that unit test should be testing one particular functionality
only.
We should not try to make one single unit test method that tests multiple methods of your class at the
same time.
So to write unit tests we will use G unit.
G unit provides us with an API to write small code snippets to test our Java methods.
Now your job application will contain many classes, and each class may contain several methods to ensure
that your application is well tested.
You will want to write more than one unique test for most of the methods in your class.
When you are on unit test and it successfully passes, it will be marked with green color.
But if unit does not receive an expected result and it fails, then it will be marked with a red color.
This is why on my slide I have some unique tests color in green color and some unique tests that have
failed color with the red color.
Now let's zoom in and have a look at an example of one single unit test.
Now let's start with a very simple code example first, and then as we become more comfortable with
unit testing, we will look at more complex code examples.
Let's assume that we have a German class that is called calculator, and it has a very simple method
that is called integer division.
It has a very simple business logic, and all we do here is we perform math division and we do white
one number but another.
But even though it is a very simple code example, this method can still be tested.
For example, what if a developer made a typo and instead of division performed multiplication or addition?
So we can write the unit test to make sure that this code works correctly.
And to test this method we can write unit test that will look something like this.
Now we will talk about test methods, structure, and all those details in full in video lessons.
So please do not worry if it looks a little bit strange or confusing to you.
For example, you might have noticed that the method name looks very unusual.
It is very long and it has test notation.
But don't worry, we will talk about it in the following video lessons.
Now, this method is also divided into three main sections.
The first one is called Arrange.
In this section, I create a new instance of calculator class.
The second section is called Act and in this section I actually invoke the integer division method and
provided with two valid parameters.
Now the image of division method is the method that I'm testing.
It is called method and the test.
And I want to make sure that this method works as expected and it performs integer division correctly.
So I give it to parameters and I copied the return value into a new variable that is called result.
The third section is called Assert and this is a section where I use special duty methods to verify
that the result is correct.
Four divided by two should produce two.
So I use a special g unit method that is called assert equals to verify that this result is correct.
The first parameter that it accepts is an expected value.
I'm expecting the result to be equal to two.
The second parameter is an actual value that was returned from integer division method.
And the third parameter is an optional hint error message that will be printed in the console.
If this test method fails.
All right.
So if four divided by two does not produce two.
Then this unit test will fail.
And the message four divided by two should have returned.
Two will be printed in the console.
Now, don't worry if it is still a little bit confusing at this moment.
In the following lecture, school actually write this unit test in our development environment and we
will run it and we'll actually see how it all works.
If I run unit test in my Java development environment, for example.
A And if this unit test passes, then I will see a green mark on its left side.
But if my integer division meant it did not return expected result and my unit test fails, then I will
see a red mark on its left side and there will be also more information printed in the console and also
in the test result panel.
Now different development environments will have different user interface for this report, but the
successful unit test will always be green and the failed unit test will always be a red.
So unit testing is a process where developers write and then a run very simple test methods that test
individual parts of our application.
You need.
Tests are very small and they run very fast.
They run very fast because when testing them entered, any dependencies that this method might have
are replaced with more.
For example, if the method I'm testing sends a ship request and depends on a ship client object, a
real client object will need to be replaced with a thik or mock version of it, and there can be different
kinds of these fake objects that can be a fake object, that can be mock object, or they can be a spy
object.
And we will talk more about these different kinds of fake objects later in this video course.
So really, your client object will be replaced with a mock version of it and no relationship request
will be sent.
And this will make our unique test method run much faster.
And we do it because you need test.
Method is not actually testing how it should be cleaned works.
You need test is focused only on tests in java code inside of the method that you are testing.
If the method you are testing depends on another object, then dependency will need to be placed with
more compute.
And when all external dependencies are replaced with mock object, with predefined behavior or with
hardcoded values, then the method we are testing will work very fast and our unit test will also work
very fast.
And this is why, if needed, I can write more than one unit test to test a single method.
For example, one unit test will be to test method with valid input parameter values.
Another unit test will be to test method with invalid input parameter values.
And another unit test can be to test methods with invalid response from a Should you be clean?
You can write different unit tests to make sure that the method you are testing works well and reliable
under different conditions and always produces expected result.